# Sizing-of-on-grid-renewable-energy-system-in-Mauritius
Mauritius has no known coal reserves or oil and is therefore heavily dependent on imported energy resources. The electricity production is characterized by the Central Electricity Board (CEB) and the various Independent Power Producers (IPPs). However, environmental issues have been brought to the surface in relation to the energy policy mainly as a result of global warming, caused by emission of greenhouse gases (UNDP, 2022). Mauritius is situated in the tropics as such benefits from 2900 hours of sunlight per annum. In order to encourage the use of solar energy whether for water heating or electricity production, incentive schemes are devised so as to enable long-term goals to be achieved, addressed by the Renewable Energy Masterplan. CEB provides many schemes such as Net-Metering, Gross-Metering and NetBilling to attract interested parties to adopt energy production from renewable resources. Hence, it is worthwhile to investigate the implementation of a grid-tied PV system under proposed schemes for an entity (Green Growth Knowledge Platform, 2022).
The national and international economies were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. Global lockdowns predicted delays in project completion and disruptions in the human capital transfer, supply networks, and market for RE technologies. The pandemic's effects were felt in Mauritius and had a corresponding impact on how RE initiatives were carried out.
The Ministry of Energy and Public Utilities published the Renewable Energy (RE) Roadmap 2030 for the Electricity Sector in 2019 and details how to meet the RE targets of 35% by 2025. To accomplish the goal of 40% RE by 2030, the RE Roadmap took into account the necessary technological investments and included energy options. In contrast to the projected RE objective of 25.2% by 2020, this resulted in an integration of RE of 23.9% in the energy mix.
The Government of Mauritius declared green energy as a new economic pillar of Mauritius in the Budget Speech for 2021/22. The declaration of the phase-out of coal in the production of electricity within the same timeframe coincided with the rise in the RE target in the energy mix from 40% to 60% by 2030. The declaration was issued well in advance of COP26, which will take place in Glasgow in November 2021.
